Alex Petkas [00:00:00]:
So I thought we could start with a quote that I pulled from your book. A soldier that has been hit in the chest by a bullet. Face down on the ground. His pack has fallen on him and is pinning him in place, and he's just pretty convinced that he's going to die. Another Marine has come up to him. He's giving him some medical advice. Here he goes. That fear was there, Haney said, But you can work that fear if you can get a handle on it, which is very hard to do, but it can be done, and it can sustain you through things.

Alex Petkas [00:00:31]:
You have to turn it around to where that's the only thing, you know. You just have to accept where you're at, the position that you're in. I mean, you can cry about it all day long, but it's not going to do you any good. I knew where I was at. I knew I couldn't move. I knew they would get to me, and. And I knew it was just win. And the they there is, I think, the vc.

Alex Petkas [00:00:52]:
He's convinced he's going to die. An incredible moment in this. In this scene of. Of mastering Fear. I want to ask you to just start off, Doyle, what inspired you to become an author in this way?

Doyle Glass [00:01:06]:
That's a great question. It goes way back to my first visit to the Alamo and the book by. It was a book by lon Tinkle called 12, 13 Days to Glory or something like that. And as a young kid, looking at these guys that fought a battle to the death and the line and the sword, the myths, the mythology around that, you know, fighting for their country and values, and then. Then they all get wiped out, I. I was in them, I forever, you know, young boy. I just thought that. That.

Doyle Glass [00:01:44]:
That bravery is what being a man was all about, and that that's. I wanted to reach that level. So life goes on, you know, go to law school, become a prosecutor, put bad guys away, and then, you know, fast forward. There was always that nagging desire to tell these stories that are here with us, that are so important to all of us growing up and how. Who we want to be, who we want to emulate, what values we want to have as people, and, you know, going to church and being the right person and doing all these things. I still had that. That nagging feeling is that we're missing something. I mean, we.

Doyle Glass [00:02:37]:
We. These. Culturally, these stories need to be told. So I sculpted two monuments to honor Medal of Honor recipients, one in Kentucky, one in Texas. And I was taken in by those stories. Then I Realized? Well, you can't sculpt monuments of everything, but there are a million stories that need to be told around that time. We're talking the 1990s, early 2000s. We as a country are honoring our greatest generation.

Doyle Glass [00:03:08]:
We have Band of Brothers. We have Saving Private ryan, World War II memorial, HBO miniseries, the Pacific as well. We should honor our men and women that served in World War II to fight evil so that you and I can talk today in freedom. I mean, we're here because of what they did. I mean, we can never forget that, that we are where we are, you and I, with our freedom and our coffee and on our podcast, because they died and bled so that we would not live under a totalitarian regime where we did not have our freedom. We can never forget that. That goes all the way back to the revolution, Civil War, all the way forward. We're here, you know, we have our liberty because of them.

Doyle Glass [00:03:58]:
So I realized I grew up during the Vietnam War. I was too young to serve. But I remember. I remember the broadcast every night, Walter Cronkite coming on and talking about it. I remember how we left that conflict, and I remember how poorly our veterans were treated by Americans when they returned, you know, having tomatoes thrown at them called baby killers. And then forgotten and just simply forgotten. Fast forward. We're now in 2025.

Doyle Glass [00:04:31]:
I started these interviews over a decade ago. We've already lost half of the people that I spoke with, so that we're in the same position as we were with the greatest generation. Now with the Vietnam generation and a war that people don't know much about. There's a lot of misunderstanding. There's still an attitude of forgetting and even mixing them up with the Korean War, with the younger generation. And more importantly, we don't have the stories from Vietnam, the Vietnam War that we have from World War II. There are a lot more stories, and you can dive into specific elements of heroism, gallantry, in that conflict, because it's a war. We won.

Doyle Glass [00:05:16]:
Vietnam. It's not out there. And when I first made the step to start interviewing people, and it was for my first book, Lines of Medina, there's nothing out there other than the veterans who were there. And it became almost a rush to. To at least get some of these stories recorded while I could. And that was the genesis. So it goes all the way back to early stories, you know, the Alamo, Thermopylae. I mean, just back to the ancients as you study, to.

Doyle Glass [00:05:51]:
To now, and how we can't overemphasize, how Important knowing what that was about from Haney's level. Howard Haney facing down in the rice paddy with that pack on his back and a bullet in his chest, knowing he's going to die. What's going through his mind? How does he handle that? That quote that you quoted from him illustrates everything. I mean, look at the lesson that you. You and I can learn today in the morning in the comfort of our offices, from what he felt and about fear and how to handle fear. I mean, what a great lesson. So long answer to your question. I hope I hit where you.

Doyle Glass [00:06:38]:
You know, what you were asking. But I guess it boils down to we need these stories. We need this truth for all of us. And when these men pass away, their stories pass away with them.

Alex Petkas [00:06:54]:
Yeah, it's really urgent. I think a lot of thoughts came to mind as you were talking. One is that it's interesting that Plutarch, often the biographer that I base most of my episodes on, he is always talking about, always kind of drawing this comparison between sculpture and biography, how he is forming an image of the character of a man, much like a sculptor would. And. But his idea is that he's forming an image of the soul. So I think, you know, you get something different from a physical monument than you do from a story. But there's a lot of interesting parallels there, classically. And I think one of the things that is talked about at length by many moral philosophers.

Alex Petkas [00:07:44]:
I think C.S. lewis has a great quote on this. It's not coming to mind, the exact wording of it right now, but how. You know, there are many virtues, justice, temperance, cleverness, wisdom. But the foundation of all the virtues that makes all of them possible is courage. And I think this is one thing that you see just constantly. And it's one of the things that I. I tell people that one of the things you get out of reading war stories or stories of great men of action, great, great souls of action, is they encourage you very literally.

Alex Petkas [00:08:23]:
They, they. They. You hear the. The story and you kind of imagine a better version of yourself that matches the D that you've seen in a small way, you know, when we're in peacetime. But so I think that really comes through. So why don't you take us. And I want to return to the Haney part a little later because there's some really interesting stoic reflections about how death, certainty of death, frees you and gives you peace. Really interesting reflections from the soldiers on that.

Alex Petkas [00:08:58]:
But before we get there, why don't we paint the scene a Little bit of. So the book is Swift Sword. It's mainly about September 4th. Is that right? 1967 is. Is the day that this incredible battle happens. Could you situate us just generally in the Vietnam War for those who aren't Vietnam War buffs? I mean, it's kind of hazy for me as well, so I'd appreciate it too.

Doyle Glass [00:09:24]:
Sure. Now, I just hit thumbnail and. And I may miss some important details, but, you know, overall, in 1967, we're in the middle of the Cold War. So first obvious thing is you have nuclear missiles from the Soviet Union and China and then the west all pointed at each other with the threat of worldwide mass destruction. So first off, that means you cannot fight a war like you did World War II all out. Or at least it puts limits on. On that because of the threat. So we have a situation in Vietnam where you have a Communist leader, Ho Chi Minh, allied with China and Russia.

Doyle Glass [00:10:15]:
Therefore, he is wanting to consolidate all of Vietnam under his realm. If you look at it from. Step back. Well, that's the spread of communism. We don't want that. Which is very valid. You know, we don't want totalitarian regimes expanding. What do we do? Well, we go fight this democratic.

Doyle Glass [00:10:37]:
We go fight for this democratically elected government in South Vietnam to. To prevent that spread of communism. The problem is it's much more complicated than that. The Vietnam War for the Vietnamese people was a war of independence against imperialistic regimes as they viewed them. Ho Chi Minh originally, back in the 50s, even approached the Western democracies, really didn't get very far. And then got support then from the communist regimes and then went down that path not knowing really what. Know your enemy. I think that's one of the.

Doyle Glass [00:11:16]:
The key tenets of the art of war. We didn't really know our enemy in Vietnam as well as we should have. We painted it more in a black and white type of way, which created all sorts of problems with who's our friend and who's our enemy on the ground. So we have Marine and Army units in Vietnam supporting the army of Nor the South Vietnamese, the arvin, as they were called, to maintain their independence and not be taken over by the North Vietnamese. The war in 1967 is starting to become unpopular in the United States. We have, you know, young men coming back in body bags. What are we doing? Reports of atrocities. Things are starting to go south for the American people who are weary of our young men coming back dead, which is.

Doyle Glass [00:12:10]:
That would worry anybody. So they're limited units. The Marine unit in the Kon Valley that we're talking about, the battalions and the divisions had to have control over a large area. So they would go from area to area to fight, but then have to give up ground because there's simply not enough troops to occupy the entire Khe Sanh Valley of South Vietnam. The war is becoming unpopular at home. The North Vietnamese are like, okay, how can we win this? This is when thoughts of the Tet offensive in early 1968 start coming about and they get on the very valid idea. The South Vietnamese can't win without the Americans. How do we defeat the Americans? We keep killing them and the people at home are going to turn against the war and they'll withdraw, which is exactly ultimately, at the end of the day, what happened.

Doyle Glass [00:13:14]:
So the strategy worked. It was kind of just draining blood from America until we became tired of the war. So in preparation for the Tet offensive in late 1967, the Vietnamese are planning multitude attacks in South Vietnam to create that weariness, to show that they are not being beaten and to really kind of push America out of the war because of that weariness that ultimately happened. That was in the Khe San Valley. That was part of the plan that North Vietnamese were brought in the second nva, North Vietnamese army division of a veteran unit that had been rebuilt after earlier operations that had decimated it. And that's another thing to talk about tactically, the Marines and the soldiers, the Americans won most of the battles tactically. This overall strategy that we're, you know, that there were some issues with. So on September 3, 1967, there are free elections for the president in South Vietnam.

Doyle Glass [00:14:25]:
Marine units are out to protect voters from harassment from the Viet Cong, which are kind of the guerrilla units working in South Vietnam and even the nva, the more the formal army. And what happens is that on the night of those elections, September 3, a company and a company of Marines constitutes roughly back then, 150 to 160 men. One company, Delta One Five, had been protecting South Vietnamese boulders at the polls. Nighttime comes and they bed down near a river, the Lili river in the region we're talking about. And another company is nearby, Bravo. What happens was, is that the North Vietnamese launch a massive ambush. The army is there, The North Vietnamese army is there in massive numbers. They're outnumbering the Marines at least three to one, maybe even more.

Doyle Glass [00:15:28]:
And so they. They basically start a prelude to the Tet offensive in preparation for that big offensive in January in the Khe San Valley region. So they ambush the Delta 15 at night. Those men are about to be overrun. Bravo One Five, another unit goes to help them. They get ambushed. Word goes out in the middle of the night. These men need help.

Doyle Glass [00:15:56]:
We have to. And the Marines will tell you it's not a rescue operation. I mean it's. They just need assistance. They needed a lot of assistance. They were being overrun. Their perimeter was being pierced. So the word goes out to a.

Doyle Glass [00:16:10]:
This, now this is the 15 which is the 1st Marine Division, 5th Battalion. Word goes out to another battalion, 3 5, our men need help. The company that I write about, Mike 3:5,164 men was on standby as a quick reaction force. They called it a Bald Eagle company to go out to wherever they're is help needed immediately. So they were on standby at base. Word came out Bravo and Delta 15 are in trouble. You guys have got to go out there. So Three Five and another company, Kilo, are called to their aid.

Doyle Glass [00:16:50]:
And that sets the stage for the battle. The first day of Operation Swift that I write about. Does that give you the thumbnail you need overall of the Vietnam where we are strategies on both sides?

Alex Petkas [00:17:03]:
Yeah, that's great. And you know, something you were saying made me remember I was at an event recently with gentleman named Jeffrey Race, who is, was a Navy intelligence officer, I think is what he was at the time. But. And he ended up writing a book about called War Comes to Long an. And it's a, a very detailed military history, it's sort of almost sociological history of how the Viet Cong or the North Vietnamese recruited the foot soldiers and kind of did state building network building in the agricultural regions throughout the country. And kind of points to this issue that when you're fighting the Viet Cong, it's like you're in South Vietnam and you think you're fighting the Viet Cong, but you're just fighting the locals. The, the Viet Cong is the people there in a lot of these regions. And this is something that you talk about in the, in the, as happening in the Khe Valley.

Alex Petkas [00:18:11]:
You know, there's a scene when their MIC company comes up. You know, they've just been dropped off by the helicopter and they approach this village and there's this eerie silence, you know, like no people are around. And that gives you a really bad feeling. If you have experience in, in VI Vietnam, when the people aren't around, that means, you know, something's happening probably because the locals in this village are, are, you know, part of the resistance. So very complicated, difficult, dynamic fog of war going on there.

Doyle Glass [00:18:45]:
Absolutely, absolutely. And from a, the viewpoint of an 18 year old Marine. Yes, that's a lot to take on when your buddy gets killed next to you and you're, and you're facing death at each moment. That's, that's a lot.

Alex Petkas [00:18:58]:
Yeah, that's a lot, man. Well, so give us a little overview of the battle and I want to maybe we won't get into the play by play of, of everything that happened, but, and, and then zero in on some, some lessons and some stories but, but, but before we get there, give us like a overview of like what happens exactly when Mike Co. 35 comes in for this relief mission. How does the battle start?

Doyle Glass [00:19:27]:
Great question. So early morning September 4th and first, I want to give you a quick sketch of the challenges and I'll do that from the company commander who was a lieutenant J.D. murray. Usually a company is commanded by a captain, but because of attrition in the ranks, he was commander of Mike 35. And one of the reasons that he was appointed is that he had combat experience. A lot of these men, in fact the majority of them and the officers did not. So having combat experience and willing to go back into combat was very, very valuable. And that's why you, you saw a lot of guys re up in Vietnam because it saved lives if they knew what they were doing.

Doyle Glass [00:20:13]:
So, but you had Lieutenant Murray with combat experience. He had three platoon commanders. The company is divided into three platoons and each of them fresh from the United States, fresh from the basic school. No combat experience. He didn't even really know them. He did not train them. The company was not able to train as a unit. In World War II, companies were sent over as units that having trained together and the men knew each other.

Doyle Glass [00:20:41]:
So that was the first challenge. Second challenge is you had the individual replacement system in Vietnam where when a Marine is wounded or killed, he's individually replaced by a kid straight out of boot camp. Nobody trusts this kid. This kid is alone. He hasn't trained with anyone. So once again, you don't have that teamwork that's built in. You have inherent weaknesses in the system. Then the third key element is that you had a faulty weapon that these Marines were supplied with.

Doyle Glass [00:21:17]:
The M16 at that time would consistently jam. The Marines were told it was because they weren't cleaning the, the weapons properly. That wasn't true. So these men were covering their bags and plastic from their C rations, wrapping them in towels, keeping them clean because they had to rely on this weapon to not only win a battle, but to live themselves. So these are some of the challenges that Captain Lieutenant Murray was facing when he was called in the early morning hours. You guys need to go now. Choppers are coming. And add another element, the choppers.

Doyle Glass [00:21:55]:
And I can't recall the exact model. I think the Skyhook or Skyhawk had been grounded for faulty tail rotors. And so they were crashing. So the Marines are going to faulty weapon leadership issues, you know, issues with the structure. And they knew they were about to get on these choppers that could just simply crash, not even be shot down, but crash. So those are the challenges that they're facing. But being marines, being mostly men who volunteered to fight and at this point in the war, these men are really fighting for themselves. They're fighting for their buddy next to them on their left and right to do their duty, to help save not only their lives, but their comrades lives.

Doyle Glass [00:22:44]:
Because everybody depends on each other. You know, that's really like, you know, I, I need, I need you to help me stay alive. I'm going to help you so that you could stay alive. But they do their duty, they're called out and they basically rush to go on these choppers. Sand is kicking up into their weapons. Like I said before, they're covering them with the plastic from their C rations, wrapping them in towels, and they load the choppers and they fly out and they're immediately landed in the wrong place. So that, that's the first thing. So we have the theme here is so many challenges against them, yet they do their duty and they find a way to succeed.

Doyle Glass [00:23:30]:
You know, what's the definition of success? To survive, to do your duty, to accomplish your mission. And, and that's what ultimately they did. So without getting into too much detail, I wanted to sketch that out for you.

Alex Petkas [00:23:44]:
Yeah, this M16 issue is so tragic. I mean I, I had heard that it was a faulty weapon, but I mean it, it, it, it seems like it's like a chemical issue. Maybe the inside of the barrel hasn't been chromed properly and it, you know, the gunpowder carbonizes and there's just like, it's not a cleaning issue. And no amount of cleaning is going to make these guns fully functional. And it, it ends up costing lives. And as you, as you catalog on the battlefield. But the, I think this, this guy, Lieutenant Murray is a really inspiring figure from the story and I think this is something that you point out that he had the option like officers, is this right? That they would take six months on, six months off, like non combat duty. Versus combat duty.

Alex Petkas [00:24:30]:
And he, for whatever reason, I probably out of a sense of duty that lives were at stake, decided to forego his non combat cycle. And in this particular conflict he had re upped as a combat officer voluntarily. And it put him in this position to, to, to, to do an amazing job of, of courage under fire and deaf leadership. And if he hadn't have been there, you know, who knows what have happened? Did I get that right?

Doyle Glass [00:25:02]:
Oh, absolutely. And there are countless examples of that. Another one is a veteran by the name of Larry Peters who had a second tour of duty and he was a quote, veteran at age 20 or you know, something like that. And his experience at the non commissioned officer level, the sergeant is just, it illustrates so many examples of this heroism and courage and duty that don't get told. That's one thing I want to emphasize now is that Illustra highlighting these stories is a way to shine the light on all these other stories that are out there that just simply the bandwidth to try to tell. But it became for them, I have knowledge. For Murray, my lieutenants that are coming in don't have that knowledge yet. They don't have that experience yet.

Doyle Glass [00:25:57]:
I can save lives here. If you had a captain come in fresh from the United States in this particular situation, no offense to that individual, but he'll probably get killed and get everybody else killed because he just doesn't have the combat experience. Lieutenant Murray had that.

Alex Petkas [00:26:14]:
Yeah. And, and this distinction between veterans and, and new recruits is just so important in so many battles in the ancient world. Same dynamic. You know, when Caesar fights against Pompey, he's got, he's maybe outnumbered in terms of forces, but he's got veteran forces that have been fighting with him for nine years in Gaul when the Civil War breaks out. And it's just, you know, as, as Cicero points out in the letter, he's like, Caesar's army might be smaller, but it is incomparably superior for this very reason that these men know each other, they know how to fight. They've had years, they're veterans. It's like the NFL versus high school football team. And, and so yeah, but, but, and this is a really big problem when, when they get dropped off in, in the wrong place and they go in and the people that they end up facing that end up ambushing them.

Alex Petkas [00:27:11]:
The NVA are battle hardened veterans. Right?

Doyle Glass [00:27:16]:
Absolutely. And once again, from the get go, from the very beginning, you see Lt. Murray's leadership and his veteran experience because they get dropped into the wrong spot. So they're, quote, lost. They have to go find Delta and Bravo One five. He has barking in his ear a battalion commander from. Not his battalion commander, but from One5. Basically, you're not in the right spot what's going on.

Doyle Glass [00:27:44]:
And so Murray has to figure out immediately what to do. So he fires a white phosphorus round, which is used in combat, but also it puts off white smoke onto the position of where he needs to be. According to the coordinates, he can see where he's at, and then he sets off. So immediately he improvises and, you know, realize he's going in the wrong direction, changes course and is able to go into the right direction. In the meantime, the nva, as you well point out, are veterans. A lot of them are from the Khe Sanh region. They're locals, so they know they're. The region has tunnels that are in place.

Doyle Glass [00:28:33]:
You know, obviously the locals know what to do so that they can basically set up an ambush. So they're. First off, they're incredibly well camouflaged, even on a bright sunny day with some, you know, shrubbery and tree lines, but then open rice paddies, they're able to camouflage themselves so well that they can't be seen. And what's happening now is that Mike 3:5, as they go toward 1:5 on the leaning river to relieve them, they're now about to be ambushed themselves in the. With the same issue, outnumbered three to five to one, and they're about to walk into a death trap.

Alex Petkas [00:29:13]:
Yeah, and it's. It's almost. It's almost worse than it ends up being because they. If I'm remembering correctly, the. They kind of trigger the ambush before they're fully in the most vulnerable position. Like they're. They're not quite in. In the net before the point man, this guy Swan, sees some rustling in the bushes and.

Alex Petkas [00:29:39]:
And then, you know, at some point, you realize all the bushes are just camouflaged VC fighters, which is just right. You know, these people are, like, grown out of the land. I mean, it's really chilling. And. And so they. They managed to not totally be enveloped before a fighting breaks out, but once it starts, it's just hellfire. Almost instantaneously. Right?

Doyle Glass [00:30:01]:
Yeah, It's. If Jack Swan and I want, you know, I want to talk about being a point man once again. We're talking. I don't know exactly his age, but he's 20. The point man is the tip of the spear for the entire unit. If somebody's going to be killed and shot first, it's him, because he's walking into the enemy. Jack Swan volunteered for this. He enjoyed it.

Doyle Glass [00:30:28]:
He knew he was good at it. And as he is coming over a knoll into a large rice paddy, leading the company of men, and he sees the bush move, he yelled back to his squad leader, just saw a bush move. And the squad leader said, if moves again, shoot it. He did. My point being, if they had made it out into that flat rice paddy, the entire company, we're talking Custer at the Battle of the Little Bitcorn. I mean, they would have been surrounded, the perimeter would have been pierced, and they probably. We wouldn't be here telling their story because we wouldn't know about it because they'd all be dead. But because the Jack Swan saw what he did as the point man.

Doyle Glass [00:31:15]:
They had a little bit of high ground. And as a military historian, you know, the importance of any high ground. This knoll, it did not have a lot of COVID as far as, you know, shrubs or bushes that had a little bit. But it was at least some high ground on which to establish a perimeter. The ambush got triggered early. The NVA attacked, they formed, circled the wagons, and the fight was on from that point. One thing I want to point out is that even on that knoll, there were tunnels inside the perimeter that the North Vietnamese were able to come up and attack the Marines from inside their own perimeter, which is also chilling as well. So that's kind of the stage that's set, and suddenly it's live or die.

Doyle Glass [00:32:07]:
I mean, are we going to live or are we going to die? And these decisions have to be made immediately in the moment. And to their credit, these Marines prevailed because they were up to living in to that moment. And a lot of it was luck, but a lot of it's coordination with air support, all our, you know, all parts of the armed forces, but that's where we're at, is that the ambush gets triggered early, they're on the null, and the fight is on.

Alex Petkas [00:32:37]:
Yeah, and a lot of the same principles apply to battle. You know, the elements of surprise, high ground, also establishing a perimeter, you know, not letting your enemy kind of get in between around the back of your lines. You know, it's a hollow square formation is a, you know, something that Xenophon harps on a lot, is a battle formation. But so there's. Maybe we can start getting into some of the stories of the individuals who are. I found so compelling. One of them is this gentleman, this Catholic priest, Father Vincent Capodanno, who is a chaplain. And chaplains are not supposed to, at least not without authorization, join the troops in combat.

Alex Petkas [00:33:29]:
But Capodanno, sort of without authorization, jumps on a helicopter with his guys and goes and joins the fight. Tell us a little bit about Father Capodanno.

Doyle Glass [00:33:40]:
Well, he was an amazing, amazing individual. And, you know, one thing I, you know, want to touch on. Yes. Why I got involved with these stories. And you talk about souls and spirituality. I'm a very spiritual person, Christian, soulful, believe in the afterlife, you know, from a lot of different level. Different levels. And that's where I think a lot of this springs from.

Doyle Glass [00:34:03]:
When you get back. When you get back to its core, what our souls and. And what that means in this life, and what values do you want to be, to be a better soul? So Father Capodanna was known as the grunt Padre. And grunt is a term for Marines, the lowest private, meaning he cared about his men deeply. And he was also incredibly brave. He was ordered on warning to stay with the company of battalion headquarters back. I think it was Hill 51. There are two different hills involved.

Doyle Glass [00:34:38]:
So he's ordered to stay back with the gear, in the rear with the gear. And he's like, you know, I'm not going to do that. My job is to be with my men, to tend to their souls, to help them. I know how scared they are, so.

Alex Petkas [00:34:54]:
And you also. Sorry to interrupt, but these guys really have a feeling that. That this is. This is not going to be a good day. Like something is wrong and something big is going to happen. There's this almost like sixth sense that a lot of these guys get. And you wonder if he kind of got it, too, like, this might be the big one. So.

Doyle Glass [00:35:11]:
Well, I think he ab. Absolutely, he did. And his men did. I mean, they're quotes of Fred Tanke talking to the lieutenant colonel. You know, can we do this? I mean, you're talking three to four to one. What, how many? Thousands? What's going on? And Father Capodanna walks through the men as they're waiting for the choppers and talks to them. And he speaks. There's an account in there of one Marine that he's trying to console.

Doyle Glass [00:35:42]:
So as they load up, he disobeys a direct order and stows away on one of the choppers. And the men look at him and they're going, what is the father doing here? He's not supposed to be here. That's. The ones that see him is like, why is Father Capodanno here? He's going to get himself killed. And, you know, why is he here? So he comes in, he joins the men, and then when this ambush hits, he is true to his faith and his word and to his mission, which is to see to the souls of his men, to care for them, to save lives. And as this firefight is going on on this knoll with no cover, everybody's down. For the most part, he is standing up, going from wounded Marine to wounded Marine, helping the corpsman. And I can't say enough about the corpsman.

Doyle Glass [00:36:36]:
The Navy corpsmen were the medics. In the army, they're medics. In the Marine Corps, they're called corpsmen who provide that triage immediately to save lives when someone's immediately wounded. And it's a very dangerous position. Two corpsmen were killed just on this one day. Father Capodanna was out helping the corpsman and also providing last rites in his Catholic faith to those who were dying. And he is, at one point, he's. When gas hits, when CS gas hits, he's giving his gas mask to one of the Marines.

Doyle Glass [00:37:12]:
So his heroism immediately is amazing. And he's such a unique figure, as you well point out, in that he put his faith to the test and was with his men to the very end.

Alex Petkas [00:37:26]:
I'm gonna try to say this, that choking up, he's. He's so. And he ends up indeed saving lives and probably saving souls and ministering the last rites and then losing his own in the process. And.

Doyle Glass [00:37:40]:
And there's a great account. Fred, Fred Tankey, who just passed away. And I want to emphasize a lot of these guys have. We've lost them. Cancer, Agent Orange. These guys were walking through Agent Orange as a defoliant almost every day. And Fred just passed away. But he gives an account of how as he's trying to drag this wounded corpsman up the knoll, Father Capodanno appearing out of nowhere as an NVA is pointing the machine gun right at Fred and laughing, smiling.

Doyle Glass [00:38:13]:
It's like, I'm about to blow you away, son. And as he does that, Father Capodanno comes from behind to try to set to save Corman Leal. And in that process, the machine gun rips, Liao is killed, and then Father Capodanna was killed, is taken out right at that time. And then Fred scrambles back up and falls into a crater right at that time. So, yeah, it's a choke up moment. I mean, it. It's incredible. And my point and why I feel so strongly about what I'm doing is that Fred's passed away.

Doyle Glass [00:38:54]:
If I. If he had not been willing to talk with me and to get his story, we wouldn't have it. What I just accounted to you and why we're talking about it this morning and why it's so important for future generations, we wouldn't have it. You know, I mean, these guys are passing away. So I'm very thankful to all these veterans who trusted me in telling their stories more than once and so that I'm able as just a scribe to write it down and to preserve it and then get the word out as we're talking about now, to help, to help all of us. Yeah.

Alex Petkas [00:39:35]:
And you. They, they really opened up and, and there's many stories about just the power of faith on the battlefield I think is fascinating. And I, I see this certainly in, in the ancient sources as well for, for the Greeks and Romans. But, you know, like, there's a, a guy who's asked to be baptized because he thinks he's, he's on his way out, critically wounded. He ends up pulling through. And a very inspiring story. There's a guy who has a vision of the enthroned God speaking to him on the battlefield. Incredible.

Alex Petkas [00:40:11]:
Incredible.

Doyle Glass [00:40:11]:
And this is the, this is a kid. I mean, this guy's a kid and he sees that and he's basically chastised. I mean, like, you know, I'm all, I'm everyone's God. What are you doing? You know, why are you fighting like this? But, but the words of I am. Yeah, I am. It's very powerful because if you go back and look at just, you know, Christian scriptures, God says, I am. This is where it goes way. We can, you know, we can go way into our souls and, and then project outward.

Doyle Glass [00:40:42]:
But that vision when he was telling me that I'm going, wow, okay, this is, I didn't expect this. Uh, and let's get this down so you and I could talk about it. And then Ed Combs, who's alive and lives in Ohio, he's that veteran who took a round to his chest that could have been a 50 caliber round and opened a. Such a hole in his chest and he could see his lungs. And he goes into that crater and he asks just a buddy, can you baptize me? Because I am not making. Well, I'm a Catholic. Well, I'm not a Catholic. I don't care.

Doyle Glass [00:41:18]:
You know, I don't care. Just, let's do this because I'm on the way out, son. And he wasn't. But in that moment he could have been, I mean, without a Doubt. And that's where you get back into. And I can't say enough about in Vietnam, the, the medical situation of the doctors and the nurses and the corpsmen and the medics, because they were able to get in choppers to get these guys out and get them onto the medical ships or at least to, you know, a field hospital somewhere. And that saved multitude many lives where you didn't really have that in World War II or as much in Korea. So that was an innovation that was positive.

Doyle Glass [00:42:02]:
And you know that. And we're talking about these medical choppers, medevacs coming in, braving machine gun fire from the nva. They could get shot down themselves so that bravery of those pilots can't be overemphasized again to get these guys, you know, on the medevac and to get them the help that they need. So, you know, I want to talk about that as well. Another thing I want before I forget about it, we talked a little bit about arms and how air power was such so important, you know, calling in air power to beat back the North Vietnamese so that these Marines could live. You had the pilots in the bird dog, which is a Cessna, flying over the battlefield. It's a little private airplane. So imagine artillery, bombs, guns, fire, NVA trying to shoot you down.

Doyle Glass [00:42:55]:
They're the spotters to make sure that when you call in the bombs, you, you don't call it in on your own men. Right. You don't wipe out all of my company. That bravery, those accounts from those guys has to be talked about as well.

Alex Petkas [00:43:11]:
Yeah. And isn't there a moment where the pilots of, of one of these bird dogs are they. They're just so determined to keep serving the men on the ground in such a critical moment that the plane is like running out of gas and they're like, we could go back early and land the plane, but then these guys would be abandoned for however long. We're just going to stay out here in the field. And they end up. Do they end up like crash landing?

Doyle Glass [00:43:42]:
He thought he was. He did make it back. I mean, basically on vapors, I mean on nothing. And there's a point where he thinks he's called in bombs on his own map, you know, because there was an advancing company, I mean, of NVA coming right at the knoll. And he could see this from his vantage point in the bird dog. And you know, they have to. Are these Marines? Is this help coming the way coming? Because you had another company kilo out there. Could they be coming to help? Mach 3 5.

Doyle Glass [00:44:16]:
It gets very confusing up there in the moment. No, those are Vietnamese. Those are bad guys. But at one point he thinks that he's annihilated a hundred of his own men and he dry heaved out the side of his small Cessna and then, but then it's confirmed that, no, you hit the right guys. So imagine that tension, that pressure that you're running out of fuel. You're gonna crash. If you crash, even if you survive the crash, the NVA are going to shoot you and kill you. And when you land, they're going to, you know, they're going to cut your throat.

Doyle Glass [00:44:54]:
But even more, oh my God, did I just kill, right, A bunch of marines, young guys? No, you did your job right. You, you, you did the right thing. So we can delve into so many elements of courage under fire and in the moment. And once again, what was so inspiring about this book is that these guys prevailed. I mean, there's, you know, they, they overcame these challenges. And that was to me, in a lot of ways, in my own personal life, you know, the challenges I faced. One of the reasons you asked why I wrote these books during some of the most difficult times of my life, I'm inspired by these people.

Alex Petkas [00:45:36]:
Yeah.

Doyle Glass [00:45:36]:
If they can do this, then I, from the comfort of my nice house in America, I'm not being shot at. I can deal with whatever comes my way. And I need to get over it. Quit whining, you know, man up honestly and get it done. And by looking at these stories and watching these guys and writing about them and hearing about them, they inspire me to be stronger, better man. Because of that and man and woman, it goes both ways. I mean, yeah, a better person, a better soul.

Alex Petkas [00:46:10]:
Another inspiration, inspiring story from, from Lt. Murray is that really made me think of Julius Caesar and Xenophon. So there's, they somehow, you know, through sheer bravery and the support of the, you know, the air support and, and grit, they managed to make it through the day. And night falls and they're, they're there on the knoll and, and Murray, the commanding officer, right, he takes incredible risks and he goes around personally to the perimeter and, and inspects every, every little, you know, a lot of what their, their cover is, is like bomb holes where, where, you know, bombs or mortars have hit and that, that's the best that they have. And so they're, they're in these bomb holes and he goes and inspects the perimeter. Can we talk about his, what he says and his motivations for doing that? I thought that was so interesting as a leadership decision, you know, and.

Doyle Glass [00:47:13]:
And you even have to go back a few hours on the knoll. You have these craters. He has established a command crater with his unit and his radio operators so that he can call in the close air support, he can have contact with his platoons to know what's going on. And at one point, he's getting all this chatter, world being overrun. Oh, my God. And he says, knock it off. Stop it. Platoon one, report.

Doyle Glass [00:47:40]:
Platoon two, report. Platoon three mortars, report. So he's establishing order immediately in this very tense situation. Well, at one point, first platoons out at the front of the knoll. He loses contact with him. The radio operator is shot. Lieutenant Combs, the lieutenant, who later asked to be baptized, is down, takes a huge round to the chest. He has no communication with his first platoon, which is a third of his company at the front.

Doyle Glass [00:48:11]:
Where part of this attack is coming from. It's coming from the front and from the right. It's basically an L ambush. He makes the decision to climb out of his command crater and run down the knoll to find his sergeant. Say, you're taking over. Well, incredibly brave. Also incredibly. Argument can be made to be credibly reckless, because if he shots, if you lose your commanding officer in this situation, you're in a world of hurt, because who's going to take over and who's going to.

Doyle Glass [00:48:44]:
Going to coordinate all these arms? He runs out like a football player. He's a football player in high school. Finds Sully Craig Sullivan, who's another veteran. You're in charge, Sully. And Sullivan says, I look up and I see Lieutenant Murray. And I'm going. And I mean, bullets are hitting all around. I'm going, what are you doing here? You know, you're in charge now.

Doyle Glass [00:49:07]:
Get cover. Establish your perimeter. Lieutenant Combs is down. And then he runs back, makes it back later at night. It's now dark. The NVA is still out there. They still outnumber. Are they going? And 15 was just attacked at night.

Doyle Glass [00:49:23]:
They were ambushed at night. So the threat of a night ambush is very, very real for this depleted company. So he goes out to see where his men are in the perimeter to make sure that that perimeter, you know, once again circling the wagons, is intact. And at one point, he finds himself outside the perimeter in no man's land. And it's like, okay, time to get back. I can't really see. And he feels his way to do that. So it was such a mix of personal bravery and common sense and strategic and tactical thought in the moments of this incredible combat with seconds to make decisions that he earned the Navy Cross, which is just one level under the Medal of Honor, so well earned for his in the moment leadership, calm head.

Doyle Glass [00:50:18]:
The mix of that personal bravery along with the strategic and tactical thought of how do we survive this and then move on to the next step. How do we live to see the sunrise? So yeah, once again I certainly can't see myself doing what he did well.

Alex Petkas [00:50:41]:
And, and you know, you, you talk about at the end of the day when, when they finally get relieved the next day, the, There are some guys who are, have to be marked down as casualties even though they haven't taken any bullets or anything because they're just catatonic. They've just, they've just lost, lost it. They're just in shock and fear. And I think that goes to show how important the moral courage and the kind of physical presence the, the psychological impact of a cool headed commander like that going around to all of these men and saying, all right, you, all right, here's your duty. We're going to make it, we're going to make it. And he goes along every single one of these guys tonight to, to keep them from crumpling like that, which is just so critical. Right. And yeah, so that presence of mind is, is exactly what I think Caesar gives to his troops when you know, there's a very, several very tense moments in the war in Gaul where if he hadn't gone and personally encouraged the various units that were getting just overrun and ambushed by Gauls, the whole thing would have fallen apart.

Alex Petkas [00:51:53]:
So yeah, so one, since we promised it, I want to read one more quote about this kind of clarity that, that the certainty of death brings that is so on point with this theme of memento mori that the Stoics talk about how meditating on your own death can clarify and calm you to live your life better. This is a quote from. So it's, it's. We've talked about these two guys already. Swan the point man and Haney the guy who, who's got taken a big bullet to the chest are there in a little hole together. And I think this is Swan talking. And he says when I heard nothing but gooks behind me, nothing but VC behind me, he said what I thought was behind me. This is before the sun went down.

Alex Petkas [00:52:46]:
I went holy F. All of Mike company is gone. They are going to come over the top here, the bad guys. And I am a dead mf. And I had the deepest fear run through my body at knowing I was out of ammunition and that I was a dead man. And as soon as that went through my body, I was flushed with the calmest feeling I have ever felt in my life. Fascinating. And then he says that Howard Haney, next to him, kind of had a similar experience that we opened up with that.

Alex Petkas [00:53:15]:
That clarity from. From just all the worst fear that you could have is, like, right there, it's happening. And that kind of removes all grounds for fear. And I think if you can kind of summon that moment, this is one of the exercises that the Stoics advise, and Plutarch ii, in his way, think about vividly your own death, and it can just give you this calm and sense of what's the worst that could happen. Well, that. And you've already faced it. And then you can actually operate and do what you need to do to get yourself out of this situation, because both of these guys end up making it at the end. Amazingly.

Doyle Glass [00:53:53]:
It'S amazing to me to read that. I've never experienced that. I've done a lot of reading like you have. I know that death can be a teacher and a friend, meaning we're all going to die. We don't know when. So that teaches us to appreciate this moment right now, this day, and live it to the fullest and not get caught up in our own mind and our own pettiness, our own worries or, you know, being upset about traffic or the weather. But having said that, I've never experienced what these two men went through. And to read about it, it.

Doyle Glass [00:54:31]:
It's almost opening another door to the afterlife or to the. Another world. And being able to read what they experienced almost in a similar way at a similar time, that calming effect is very enlightening to me. I still don't understand. I'm not in that situation. But it's a glimpse and it's incredibly valuable, hopefully. I mean, once again, I'm a scribe. I'm writing this stuff down, and I'm experiencing it like you are.

Alex Petkas [00:55:07]:
But I think it goes to show how important it is to tell these stories, because if we don't hear about this, if we aren't able to relate to it, then they just happened for them. And maybe they got some encouragement about it in the moment or really, you know, I mean, these guys are living with PTSD for the rest of their lives. They're waking up in the night hearing machine guns and mortars. But this is a way that we can make it. Make it. Make it more meaningful, make it more valuable and make it worthwhile somehow, all the suffering that they went through. Redeem it somehow.

Doyle Glass [00:55:42]:
Well, and, you know, to your credit, you've. You've studied the ancients, and all of this is connected. I mean, all of these are the ancients. These men of the Vietnam War, Afghanistan, Iraq. They're. They're the ancients. They're the ancients as well. I mean, this fight on the N could have been 2,000 years ago there, you know, you go the scene in the movie Patton where he goes to a battle between, I think, the Romans and maybe the Corinthians.

Doyle Glass [00:56:07]:
I don't remember exactly, but he says, you know, of course he believed in reincarnation. I was here. My point was that studying that is so valuable, and we're missing that in our society where, you know, people are going off and committing bad deeds. You know, we've. There's two examples of those army veterans just over New Year's. So to your credit, and why it's so important to connect all of this together. And I want to be remiss. One, I want to bring up another veteran, Larry Peters, who was all of, say, 20, was told to take a squad over the knoll and envelop a tree line.

Doyle Glass [00:56:47]:
This is in the middle of the ambush. He does that. So the squad being, I don't know, 16 men, something. As soon as he does that, the whole tree line stands up and. And it's like, oh, my God, and they're being overrun. He, in his own presence of mind, I mean, your first reaction is to run. I mean, go back up the hill. He conducts one of the most difficult maneuvers, as you well know, a tactical retreat under fire, and does so brilliantly.

Doyle Glass [00:57:21]:
And there's a. Elliot Rubenfeld talks about how he's in the dirt, and he looks up and Peters is standing there with a machine gun, bloodied from shrapnel, and brings these men back in a tactical retreat. And not only that, he's standing up because he is spotting for his men with his machine gun the locations of these Vietnamese who were so well camouflaged, and in so doing so exposes himself. So he's standing with the machine gun, firing where he sees them so the other men can fight as they tactically go back up the hill. And in the end, he, like Father Capodanno, was killed because of his bravery in the moment. Both of them earned the Medal of Honor, as they well should. But without these other men who survived to tell the story, we wouldn't have it, you know. And as a writer of the ancient 2000 years from now, maybe someone will pick up this book and talk about it because of you and I knowing how important it is to put this out there, as it should be.

Alex Petkas [00:58:27]:
But not, and not everybody knew how important it was at the time. Even I think I want to transition to some of the returns that these guys experience. So Sully Sullivan, this guy that you mentioned, Sergeant who gets put in charge by Murray, he ends up taking, you know, having an incredible fight. And you know, I think it's him that a mortar lands right next to him and it blows his eye out of its socket. And I, I take it maybe the, the medic help him put it back in eventually. But you know, here's a guy who's like taken shrapnel and I don't know, bullets eye blown out of his socket by mortar. He eventually, you know, returns home after his tour is over and the reception that he gets after making such sacrifices for his country is really striking. There's a, there's a really interesting story.

Alex Petkas [00:59:22]:
I want to let you tell it about, about his moment of re entry.

Doyle Glass [00:59:26]:
So he comes back and remember I'm writing about one day in Vietnam. These guys had a 13 month tour of duty. Just the one tour. And that's a long time with a lot of, a lot of bad happening. I mean, Operation Swift was, you know, a number of days, I think maybe two weeks. This was just day one. There was a lot of combat after this operation. So he comes back and first off he's having trouble with his marriage.

Doyle Glass [00:59:56]:
So he, he's not sure what's happening there. You know, he's got a kid and he's got a, a doll that he picked up somewhere on his return. And when he gets back, whoever, the airline employee rips open the gift wrap package and treats his doll like crap. Because this person doesn't like these men coming home. I mean, and just at the Air Force base the quote hippies and that are. And a lot of these people now have regretted what they've done. I mean, sure, tomatoes, baby killer eggs, just horrible reception. And so he's having to endure that.

Doyle Glass [01:00:40]:
And he hurt. He had heard a little bit about it. So he wasn't completely blindsided by this recept in World War II. You're getting a ticker tape parade, right? You know, so he's coming home to. He's like, all right, so I've been through this and now I've got people spitting on me. The person's going to destroy my daughter's presence. And he's going. He's.

Doyle Glass [01:01:01]:
His flights are delayed. And so this group of hippies comes up, you know, they call him hippies, and they surround him in the airport and they're going to beat him up. And. And Sullivan, he's passed away, but I don't think he was the biggest guy in the world. He got, all right, fine. And he takes off his belt, which has a sharp edge to it. And he's in his Marine. He said, okay, let's go.

Doyle Glass [01:01:22]:
And at that point, a huge hand touches his shoulder. He looks up and it's Blackjack Mulligan, this wrestler who I had to Google to find out who he was, but.

Alex Petkas [01:01:35]:
A notable wrestler, it turns out, right.

Doyle Glass [01:01:36]:
But a notable wrestler. And Sullivan, Blackjack Mulligan, he says, boys, I was in the Marines, and you call him Sarge. And basically, if you want, let's go, let's do it right here, you know. And of course, the young men starting this were thoroughly cowed, such to the extent that they, I think, paid for a steak dinner and they ended up drinking and kind of becoming friends in a way. So Sullivan goes through all of that. Thank you know, God, Blackjack Mulligan was there to show him support. And he gets home and there is a man living in his house with his wife. His wife had left him and he had nowhere to go.

Doyle Glass [01:02:18]:
So talk about. Talk about stoicism, talk about digging deep faith. Complete and utter loneliness after the ordeal of combat in Vietnam, coming home to that, I think he lived with his parents for a while. And he. I mean, another example of incredible courage, bravery and solidity. He survived it. I mean, he. He remarried.

Doyle Glass [01:02:47]:
Had a wonderful marriage and had a wonderful family. Passed away from cancer, more than likely from Agent Orange. Like I said, these men would go on patrol and would just walk through this. That pesticide every day. But once again, an inspiration that you are. He's not a celebrity, he's not in the news. He's someone we don't know. But what an incredible example for you and I and for all young men and women and everyone to emulate the hardship that wasn't just one day of battle.

Doyle Glass [01:03:21]:
It was his entire life up to his own final battle with cancer. So very inspirational. Very hard to read, but incredible.

Alex Petkas [01:03:34]:
Well, you know, one of the things that you talk about in the introduction to the new volume is this. This book that you took inspiration from. I forget the name of it. It was a World War II memoir that. What was. What was it called again? And tell us a little bit about it.

Doyle Glass [01:03:54]:
Well, back when I first contacted Lt. Murray, who retired, I think, as a lieutenant colonel in the Marine Corps, Told him what I wanted to do. This is my second book on Vietnam. He said, you need to write this like Eugene Sledge wrote with the Old Breed. With the Old Breed is probably one of the best real memoirs of real combat in the Pacific during World War II. He was a veteran of Peleliu and Okinawa. Terrorizing, horrible firefight. I mean, there's no glory in war.

Doyle Glass [01:04:31]:
And Lt. Murray said, this is what it was like. You need to write that for Vietnam. And I said, well, you know, Sledge wrote his own memoir. He would write notes and put him into his uniform, not knowing if he would even live. So I'll do my best from what you guys tell me. So that was kind of my mission given to me by Lieutenant Murray. And hopefully with the second edition, and we discussed.

Doyle Glass [01:05:00]:
The first edition at the time was incomplete. I didn't really know that it was incomplete. I had a lot of my own personal tragedies in my own family to deal with. I came back to it about a decade later, looked at it. Why is it. It's very good. Why is it incomplete? And I said, because you're telling the story. You're not letting the men tell the story.

Doyle Glass [01:05:25]:
And I thought about what Lt. Murray said, Lt. Col. When he retired, about Eugene Sledge. I said, all right, I'm going to go back to the interviews, and I'm going to put those. That voice in there, that's what's made it complete. That's what I think has made it a work I'm very, very, very proud of, because their voice speaks.

Alex Petkas [01:05:49]:
And I think that a word that you, or maybe Murray used is about Sledge's work is. It's unsentimental. And there is a sense that. In which people. A lot of people are reading Ernst Junger today, Storm of Steel, Great War memoir. And I recently read Lawrence of Arabia's Seven Pillars of Wisdom, which is a. Both of those works are very literarily accomplished, but they don't. They don't try to milk war for emotional value.

Alex Petkas [01:06:23]:
And I think for that very reason, they present a lot of the facts and the detail without trying to paint it in emotional tones and get rhetorical about the war itself, about patriotism or heroism. It's just like. It's enough to present the facts. And this is very much what Julius Caesar does, is very much what Xenophon does, that they're. They're just recounting what happened and letting the facts speak for Themselves. And in your case, letting, letting the men speak for themselves, I found found to be just incredibly moving as a reader. Actually much more moving than, than a kind of varnished, you know, poetic. Not that it's not poetic to listen to these guys speak and a lot of times they're eloquent.

Alex Petkas [01:07:11]:
But there is something about war that is just cold and horrible. And what you're showcasing is the bravery of the men themselves and the virtues that shine through their actions and through their reflections on those actions. So I have to say that this was an incredibly moving and fascinating book. Swift Sword and I love war movies. It puts you more in the moment than Platoon, Apocalypse Now, Full Metal Jacket combined. I mean, it's just really, really brings you there. And so I commend you. And I understand that you have another book in the works as well.

Doyle Glass [01:08:01]:
Yes. So I spent a lot of time, basically almost two decades on Lions of Medina, my first Vietnam War book, which in the same vein, it's more of a beginning in boot camp through the battle on Medina, where Swift Sword is more in the moment of that 24 hour period. But I wanted to move into historical fiction and basically do my best to put myself in the skin of an ancient hero. And I use the word ancient meaning that tradition of what that meant. So. And I wanted to do something different and have a lot of angles and a lot of different. Not just the standard battle, but the personality. So I did a lot of research and I found this hero named Robert Benoit, who is, was a French World War I combat pilot, then in peacetime between World War I and World War II.

Doyle Glass [01:09:02]:
A F1 champion in our world, a Grand Prix racing champion. Executive with Bugatti in France. Celebrity well known one Le Mans in 1937. Just your, I don't know, name a celebrity today who's out there, who at an older age, I think of 48, roughly. He was born in 1895. His country's invaded by Germany in 1940. And I think the Fridge. The French get a lot of bad press for, quote, not winning or people don't understand what they went through and how they fought.

Doyle Glass [01:09:43]:
So Benoit, who could have sat back and lived as a celebrity and survived the war, says, I'm fighting these invaders. I'm going to do what I can. They won't accept me, accept me as a fighter pilot because I'm too old. They won't accept me on the front line. My country's now been invaded. What do I do? He becomes a member of the British Special Operation Executive. You've heard about Winston Churchill creating a fifth column in occupied France because England couldn't invade Germany. These were saboteurs who I think the quote was, make Europe burn.

Doyle Glass [01:10:27]:
So you basically go get dropped down into occupied France and you're told to create an underground cell of spies and saboteurs to blow stuff up and to arm the French resistance. Well, Benoit does this. Not only is he close to 50, but everybody knows him. You know, he's, he, he's well known. So now you're going to go be a secret agent in occupied France? Yeah, that's what I'm going to do. And what I was able to do was get a lot of research in France, the British National Archives for his file and do as much research. There's a lot, there are a lot of books out there. And then to drop myself into his skin and write from the first person perspective.

Doyle Glass [01:11:07]:
So it's not a non fiction book, it's historical fiction. But it was quite the experience. I love doing it and I think that as we talked about these warriors and these ancients, it's another angle and another way to look about that same tradition of the flawed hero. None of us are perfect, everyone is flawed, but we try to do better. So that book is now finished and we're looking for an agent and hopefully it'll be out by the end of the year. Fingers crossed. We'll see how the process goes. Right now it's called At Full Throttle.

Doyle Glass [01:11:48]:
That may change. It's had a number of different titles, but the hero, Robert Benoit, B E N O I S T. You can go Google him. If you do that, there'll be some plot spoilers. So I don't know if you want to do that or not, but that's the next work that's coming out and that work has been in progress for about six to seven years.

Alex Petkas [01:12:08]:
Fantastic. Well, I'm excited to read it when it comes out. Anything else that we should talk about, Doyle?

Doyle Glass [01:12:18]:
No, I just want to applaud what you're doing. It's important that these stories are told and that our generation, the, you know, I have a son who's 27. The young men and women younger than us, those are older, that people read and reflect and know. Listen to your podcasts, grow, make your soul better. What values, what ancient values? Valor, courage, selflessness, humility, hard work, doing the right thing, all those things that people talk about but get lost in our celebrity obsessed culture. It's really, really important now even more than ever to read the stories about these real heroes. And go back to read Caesar. I mean, go all the way through to know.

Doyle Glass [01:13:09]:
Because the history teaches us a lot of the lessons we're trying to learn. Now those lessons have been taught. You just have to go find them, listen to them, process them, and make yourself better.

Alex Petkas [01:13:21]:
But they're hard to internalize. And that's why we have to keep hitting them over and over and over again. Because that's. That's what. That's what virtue is. It's.

Doyle Glass [01:13:29]:
Well, it's a habit and you have to internalize it and you have to do it every day. And I have a mantra I do every day, to stay focused and to be in that zone, to be connected with your soul. And because in our culture, with, you know, the phones and the computer and like I said, celebrity or whatever kind of hit that's out there, it's easy to get lost. It's just easy if you don't stay focused, it's just easy to get lost. And suddenly, who am I? What am I doing? Why am I doing what I'm doing? Faith is vitally important. You know, you saw in Swift Sword how faith and spirituality came to the forefront when death is at your door. That's a great lesson right there. You know the old adage that there are no atheists, foxholes.

Doyle Glass [01:14:17]:
Well, what does that mean? What does spirituality mean? Exploring your soul. And there are a lot of ways to do that. So reading this makes you reflect and helps you focus, helps you process your own life and to make it better for yourself and your loved ones and the world.

Alex Petkas [01:14:39]:
Inspiring words, Doyle. I enjoyed this so much and thanks for writing this book and for your other books and thanks for coming on the show. Where can people find you at?

Doyle Glass [01:14:50]:
Doyleglass.com is a great place to start the website that'll give you updates on the new book coming out. Also, more on Swift Sword and Lines of Medina. I regularly blog about unknown heroes, so stories of everyday people, children, elderly, doing heroic, selfless, stoic type things. So it's a great place to hear about that. Social media, Facebook and Instagram. Doyle Glass, author, is a great place just to join that group. And you'll hear about these heroes and read about it and inspire your day and kind of focus your day to learn about other people that have done great things.

Alex Petkas [01:15:31]:
Fantastic. And we'll put a link to Swift Sword. I highly recommend everybody check this book. It's really, really exceptional. Put a link to that in the show. Notes for people as well. So thanks for coming on.

Doyle Glass [01:15:43]:
All right, Alex, thank you. I appreciate it.

Alex Petkas [01:15:45]:
Cheers.